# First MWL meeting, Autumn quarter 2016!

## On the agenda:

- For now, expect weekly meetings on Monday evenings, start and end times subject to change.
- Three of our five officers from last year have since graduated. If there's interest in keeping MWL as an RSO we'll need three more people interested in being an officer. As it stands now, being an officer is as much work as you make it (there's a general expectation that you'll try to make it to meetings, but no obligation to, or otherwise do other extracurricular work). Ideally, you should have experience with machine learning concepts equivalent to an intro machine learning course like CSE 446.
- Depending on general skill level and interest, we may bring back last year's informal Friday sessions.
    * A great time to break out the laptop and get hands on experience in a data science environment.
- We are organizing meetings differently this quarter.
    * Winter quarter 2016:
        + Organized lectures. Didactic. 
        + Pedagogic - and as a result, teacher focused and driven.
    * Spring quarter 2016:
        + Roughly half competitions and half deep learning lectures/activities.
    * Autumn quarter 2016:
        + Semi-organized explorations with "leads" (more below).
        + More dependent on involvement by members at large.
- Meetings this quarter:
    * Are an evolution of some of our better Friday meetings from prior quarters.
    * One person will volunteer as an initial lead.
        + This person will prepare a short presentation to give to other members at the meeting
        + "Preparation" can involve as little as reading an article someone else wrote that discusses a machine learning/data science topic, which we can then go over as a group - helping fill each other's gaps in understanding.
        + At the other extreme, preparation could entail learning about a topic on your own, then preparing a lecture or Jupyter notebook (or both) meant to help explain the topic to others. If you're feeling really adventurous, you could step us through a mathematical proof showing how, for example, PCA works. The sky is the limit :-) But be prepared to explain the concept to people who may have only just taken linear algebra or intro probability.
    * Lead topics can be as advanced or as basic as you like. Beginner's 100% welcome!!! :-)
    * These aren't meant to be like last Winter quarter's lectures with sharply delineated talking points and pedagogical efficiency. Discussions can be tangential to the initial lead. The goal here isn't so much to learn, but to explore and expose yourself to the multi-faceted techniques machine learning has to offer.
    * While the goal isn't to learn anything per se, the motivation for volunteering as a lead is meant to stem from an interest in learning more about a topic and sharing what you've learned with others. Make it fun! Because if it isn't fun, what's the point?
    * As an example of such a meeting, at one of last year's Friday meetings one of our members tried explaining convolutional neural networks to us. This led to a discussion of mathematical convolutions, which yet another member had learned about in one of their classes. (Understanding a mathematical convolution isn't necessary for a basic understanding of CNNs, it's just a topic we drifted into spontaneously).
    * If you'd like to lead, let an officer know!

## Meeting today:
- We show off what a fancy presentation might look like.
- Presentations by:
    * Phil Snyder - [Principal Components Analysis](2016.10.10.pca-mnist.ipynb)
    * ~~Omar Khan - Megaman~~
    * Nelson Liu - [RNN Grapheme to Phoneme](2016.10.10.RNN_G2P_Demo/RNN_G2P_demo.ipynb)
